

WikipediaThe Free Encyclopedia
Search Wikipedia
Search
Donate
Create account
Log in

Main Page
Talk
Read
View source
View history

Tools
Appearance hide
Text

Small

Standard

Large
Width

Standard

Wide
Color (beta)

Automatic

Light

Dark
Welcome to Wikipedia,
the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit.
6,914,715 articles in English
From today's featured article
Sydney Newman
Sydney Newman (April 1, 1917 – October 30, 1997) was a Canadian film and television producer who played a pioneering role in British television and Canadian cinema. During the 1950s and 60s, he held the role of Head of Drama at ABC Weekend TV and later at the BBC. During this time, he created the spy-fi series The Avengers and co-created the science-fiction series Doctor Who. After his return to Canada in 1970, Newman was appointed acting director of the Broadcast Programs Branch for the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission and then head of the National Film Board of Canada. He also occupied senior positions at the Canadian Film Development Corporation and Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, as well as acting as an advisor to the Secretary of State. His obituary in The Guardian declared that "for ten brief but glorious years, [he] ... was the most important impresario in Britain", and that his death marked the "laying to rest of a whole philosophy of popular art". (Full article...)

Recently featured: Weise's lawMLS Cup 1999Siege of Constantinople (674–678)
ArchiveBy emailMore featured articlesAbout
Did you know ...
Panhandle Gap
Panhandle Gap
... that Mount Rainier cannot be seen from Panhandle Gap (pictured), despite the trail being "possibly the best day hike" in Mount Rainier National Park?
... that despite her father wanting her to become a music teacher, Marcia Moore ran away to Chicago to star in silent film, vaudeville, cabaret, and burlesque performances?
... that al-Shaykh Badr was the hometown of Salih al-Ali, who led the Alawite revolt against the French in Syria?
... that a charity founded by Henry Smith in 1628 now has assets of more than £1 billion?
... that the 2024 Talerddig train collision was the first collision between passenger trains in Wales since 1991?
... that X's rules were changed when StoneToss sought help from Elon Musk after an anti-fascist group published materials claiming to have revealed their identity?
... that New World Mall was the largest Asian shopping mall in the Northeastern United States upon its opening in 2011?
... that Mariah Carey used a sample from the New Zealand duo Adeaze in her 2005 song "Your Girl"?
... that working at a post office was how Derrick Harden became an NFL player?
ArchiveStart a new articleNominate an article
In the news
Benjamin Netanyahu in 2023
Benjamin Netanyahu
The International Criminal Court issues arrest warrants for Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu (pictured), former Israeli defense minister Yoav Gallant, and Hamas leader Mohammed Deif in its investigation of war crimes in Palestine.
Forty-five pro-democracy activists are sentenced under the Hong Kong national security law for their participation in the 2020 pro-democracy primaries.
In Canadian football, the Toronto Argonauts defeat the Winnipeg Blue Bombers to win the Grey Cup.
Ongoing: Israel–Hamas warIsraeli invasion of LebanonRussian invasion of Ukraine timelineSudanese civil war timeline
Recent deaths: Thomas E. KurtzOlav ThonJon KennyYuriko, Princess MikasaBob LoveCeleste Caeiro
Nominate an article
On this day
November 23

Edwin Hubble
Edwin Hubble
1644 – In opposition to licensing and censorship during the English Civil War, John Milton's Areopagitica was published, arguing for the right to free expression.
1924 – The New York Times published evidence from Edwin Hubble (pictured) stating that the Andromeda Nebula, previously believed to be part of the Milky Way, is in fact another galaxy.
2003 – Rose Revolution: Eduard Shevardnadze resigned as President of Georgia following weeks of mass protests over disputed election results.
2009 – A crowd of people on their way to register Esmael Mangudadatu's candidacy for governor of Maguindanao, Philippines, were kidnapped and killed by supporters of his rival, resulting in 58 deaths.
2011 – Arab Spring: After months of protests in Yemen, President Ali Abdullah Saleh agreed to transfer power to Vice President Abdrabbuh Mansur Hadi.
Colin Turnbull (b. 1924)Cornelius Ryan (d. 1974)Aklilu Habte-Wold (d. 1974)Miley Cyrus (b. 1992)
More anniversaries: November 22November 23November 24
ArchiveBy emailList of days of the yearAbout
Today's featured picture
Finding in the Temple
The Finding in the Temple, also called Christ among the Doctors, the Disputation in the Temple and variations of those names, is an episode in the early life of Jesus depicted in chapter 2 of the Gospel of Luke. It is the only event of the later childhood of Jesus mentioned in a canonical gospel. In the episode, Jesus – at the age of twelve – accompanies Mary, Joseph, and a large group of their relatives and friends to Jerusalem on many pilgrimages. On the day of their return, Jesus remained in the Temple. Mary and Joseph returned home believing he was among their group when he was not. After a day of travel they realised Jesus was missing and returned to Jerusalem, finding him three days later. He was found in the Temple in discussion with the elders, "listening to them and asking them questions". When admonished by Mary, Jesus replied: "How is it that you sought me? Did you not know that I must be in my Father's house?" The Finding in the Temple is frequently shown in art. This representation, titled The Finding of the Saviour in the Temple, is an oil-on-canvas painting produced by William Holman Hunt in 1860. It now hangs in the Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery in Birmingham, England.

Photograph credit: William Holman Hunt

Recently featured: Wait for Me, DaddyRed-lored whistlerMachado de Assis
ArchiveMore featured pictures
Other areas of Wikipedia
Community portal – The central hub for editors, with resources, links, tasks, and announcements.
Village pump – Forum for discussions about Wikipedia itself, including policies and technical issues.
Site news – Sources of news about Wikipedia and the broader Wikimedia movement.
Teahouse – Ask basic questions about using or editing Wikipedia.
Help desk – Ask questions about using or editing Wikipedia.
Reference desk – Ask research questions about encyclopedic topics.
Content portals – A unique way to navigate the encyclopedia.
Wikipedia's sister projects
Wikipedia is written by volunteer editors and hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other volunteer projects:

Commons logo Commons
Free media repository
MediaWiki logo MediaWiki
Wiki software development
Meta-Wiki logo Meta-Wiki
Wikimedia project coordination
Wikibooks logo Wikibooks
Free textbooks and manuals
Wikidata logo Wikidata
Free knowledge base
Wikinews logo Wikinews
Free-content news
